https://www.processon.com/diagraming/594b8867e4b0230023bb6c44

The 'definition (information)' is specified in several properties in SDP as follows in RFC 3312.
 
      current-status     =  "a=curr:" precondition-type
                            SP status-type SP direction-tag
      desired-status     =  "a=des:" precondition-type
                            SP strength-tag SP status-type
                            SP direction-tag
      confirm-status     =  "a=conf:" precondition-type
                            SP status-type SP direction-tag
      precondition-type  =  "qos" | token
      strength-tag       =  ("mandatory" | "optional" | "none"
                         =  | "failure" | "unknown")
      status-type        =  ("e2e" | "local" | "remote")
      direction-tag      =  ("none" | "send" | "recv" | "sendrecv")
      
(1) INVITE
 
A UE (UA) send INVITE to initiate a session for a specific services. At this step, UE send SDP offer and usually this SDP carries 
information about media
 
Note : In some application, especially in LTE, the other party (called party) send 100 Trying after the INVITE. But it doesn't seem to 
be mandatory according to RFC.
 
(2) 183 Session Progress.
 
The other party (Called Party) is sending 183 Session Progress. It basically saying "I received your INVITE message and am doing 
something to make this work". In theory, this is just a simple provisioning message for information purpose, but depending on the 
parameters carried by this message this can be a very crucial message.
 
One example is when this message carries following header. This means 'this session requires Precondition.' and 'this message requires 
100 rel'. What is 100 rel required ? It means 'Since this message would carry very important contents, I want to get conformation (PRACK)
from the other party'. Usually Provisoning message like 183 does not require any response from the other party, but if it carries header
'Require: 100rel', the other party should send specific confirmation message called PRACK.
Usually when a provisioning message carries very important contents like SDP, it adds 'Require: 100rel' to make it sure that the other 
party successfully received the message.
Require: precondition
Require: 100rel
Since this message set 'Precondition = Required', it start exchanging the required qos parameters as shown below. 'des (desired):qos' 
defines the final qos condition for this session, 'curr(current):qos' means the qos condition that we currently achieved. In this 
setting, both 'curr:qos local' and 'curr:qos remote' is set to be 'none' since we are at the stage where no resource is allocated in 
either local nor remote side.
a=curr:qos local none
a=curr:qos remote none
a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
 
(3) PRACK
 
This is a kind of confirmation message for 183 Session Progress. This means "I received 183 Session Progress message that you sent".  In
some cases, PRACK can carry SDP in it. Depending on whether PRACH carry SDP or not, or Depending on the detailed qos setting in the SDP, there can be some variations on UPDATE process. Refer to Requirement for SDP Negotiation section for details.
 
(4) 200 OK
 
This is just response for PRACK. This can be very simple 200OK, or it can be more complicated message carrying SDP in it.
 
(5) UPDATE
 
UPDATE message is sent from the Calling party to the called party. Main purpose of this message is "OK, now I am ready to establish the 
session at least on my side. This and this kind of media can be setup. This and this kind of qos (resource allocation) is confirmed". I 
means the calling party send out this message only when the required resource/condition is guaranteed.
 
One example of the required condition in LTE case would be the completion of Dedicated EPS Bearer Setup. It implies 'UPDATE would be 
sent out after Dedicated EPS Bearer Setup'. (At the early stage of IMS implementation, I saw most of UE does not care about this 
condition, but in more recent UEs (as of late 2014) I saw most of UE mandate 'Dedicated EPS Bearer' as a precondition for UPDATE. If you
have problem with missing 'UPDATE' message when you were expecting it, first check if 'Dedicated EPS Bearer' is established and then 
check as described in Requirement for SDP Negotiation
 
One example of qos setting in the SDP in UPDATE message is as follows. In this example, you would see 'qos for local satisfies the 
requirement' now because "curr:qos local sendrecv >= des:qos mandatory local sendrecv" (see How to evaluate the condition ? for the 
details)
a=curr:qos local sendrecv
a=curr:qos remote none
a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
 
(6) 200 OK
 
This is response(confirmation) to UPDATE. Also, another important functionality of this message is to carry the SDP with qos parameter. 
One example of qos parameter in this SDP is as follows. you would see 'qos for both local and remote satisfies the requirement and ' now
because "curr:qos local sendrecv >= des:qos mandatory local sendrecv and curr:qos remote sendrecv >= des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv" 
(see How to evaluate the condition ? for the details)
a=curr:qos local sendrecv
a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
Once you see this state of qos setting, it means both local and remote side are all ready to establish a communication.
 
(7) 180 Ringing
 
At this step, both called party and calling party would hear rining sound. Since this is an important step, it would carry the following
header.
Require: 100rel
This means PRACK is required at next step.
 
(8) PRACK
 
This is the response (confirmation) for 180 Rining with 100 rel.
 
(9) 200 OK
 
This is the response (confirmation) for PRACK
 
(10) 200 OK
 
This is the response (confirmation) for INVITE
 
(11) ACK
 
This is the response (confirmation) for 200 OK (INVITE)
 


